What is it?
She wants to know how to settle her attention,
and how to go deeper in meditation.
Your attention goes to which places, is the point.
You try to see around more.
You see, first of all in meditation you must discuss this,
and there are many others who can tell you, they'll work it out.
And secondly the best way, you see,
is to put your eyes on the Mother Earth.
Concentrate on the Mother Earth is the best way.
When you are walking,
keep your eyes on the Mother Earth.
If somebody is talking to you,
You see, then you'll absorb everything better
and you'll be stationed better, all right?
That's a very good thing to think about, that our attention should not be frittered away.
Gradually you'll settle down.
I think most of you who have come for the first time
will find it a little difficult in the beginning to adjust,
but gradually you will.
Because first of all our attention goes to small,
small things, like I have to sit on the ground
or You have to go by buses ,
or some sort of a filthy thing you see somewhere.
So the attention always goes to the defects
and the loopholes and to the filth,
because attention has been like that.
But then it starts going to the places of beauty.
In little, little things you start seeing the beauty, in little, little things you start seeing the Divine.
And then that's the time you should know that your attention will enjoy everything.
But normally you see the attention, specially the kind of attentions we have,
goes to the wrong things.
What is the loophole? We start judging everyone, we start judging every place.
Now see this place, if you sit here: to Me it is marvelous,
to you it may be just made out of what - this tin business,
this, that; all that you will start thinking.
To Me it's beautiful,
because I see these beautiful saris spread here
and the beautiful flower arrangements beautifully done,
something so special.
And the background and everything done with such care.
How did they go there,
and how did they have these things tied up?
It is remarkable.
All these things come to My mind,
and I start feeling very overjoyed that My boys
have worked so hard to put all these things up
and how nicely, how they must have arranged it.
All these ideas come into My head and I feel very elevated.
I don't see the tins or I don't see anything else.
It is what you see, where your attention goes.
So try to see something beautiful.
There is so many beautiful things that one can see.
Now where, what I see is the heart of My children,
the way they have done it, isn't it?
If you are a deep person you can see
how they have spread the saris sweetly,
how they have spread the flowers, how they've done it.
So it is the attention: where does it go?
When you start seeing for yourself, What is my comfort?
I should have this, I should have that,
then there is no joy.
But the joy lies in seeing the deeper side of what they have done for us,
how they have worked for us,
how they have brought things for us,
how they have cooked for us with love.
You are doing no work
compared to what these people are doing, no doubt.
You are moving like royal people really, to be...
And they had to do it.
Specially Ganapatipule was very difficult place.
People had to come all the way from Nagpur,
fifty people came to cook your food.
Money is not everything.
Even if you pay money, you can't do that. It's love,
it's the feeling, it's the attention,
it's the generosity of looking after the guests.
And that is how one should enjoy
how much they have done for us, how we are enjoying it.
That's how your heart will become deeper and deeper.
Now, today's puja has really a lot of importance as it is
today the Puja of Shri Mahalakshmi, and the importance
which we have of Shri Mahalakshmi in Sahaja Yoga is of
no other Shakti. Because Shri Mahalakshmi is the Shakti
which we call as the Sushumna channel,
She resides in it, and through Her
the parasympathetic nervous system is activated.
To make this Mahalakshmini Shakti strong, in our evolution
there occurred many events, and in this the
important event was the incarnation of Shri Mahalakshmi.
Shri Mahalakshmini took many incarnations,
and She is so courageous that She took
the form of a human body and took birth in this Universe,
and has done a lot of work.
It is surprising that nobody gave us information
about all these incarnations of Shri Mahalakshmi,
and nobody has the deep and detailed description about this.
Now the Principle of Shri Mahalakshmi is based
on the Principle of Shri Lakshmi. That means the Mother
of Shri Lakshmi is Shri Mahalakshmi,
we should say, the Mother of Shri Lakshmi.
That means when Shri Lakshmi comes to humans,
Shri Lakshmi is the one with balance,
a woman in the form of a Devi.
She is in such a balance that She stands on a lotus.
She has two lotuses in Her hand.
One of the lotuses is pink, and also in that
lotus is also a tenderness. The meaning of the pink lotus
is such that the person who is a lakshmipati, he will have
Shri Lakshmi, that is in the character of that person
will be this pinkness that means will have sweetness in
his character. He should not be dry.
The second thing is that if we would see a lotus, then
in that lotus, even if a bee comes into it, this bee gets
also a place in it, and the bee has so many thorns,
but even then it gets a place in the lotus. That means
it is also welcomed. Therefore, the person who has
Shri Lakshmi, he will welcome everyone, however the guest is.
He will ask for the comforts of everyone,
even if that person is small or big. He will take care
of everyone according to their social status,
he will be hospitable to everyone in a equal way.
Third thing is that the meaning of it is
that one should be generous. And if in the hand of a person
there is no generosity, then such a person
is not a lakshmipati. Danat (the quality of generosity)
is such a joy-giving quality,
and it cannot be compared with acquiring anything.
The person who attains the power of generosity,
I think such a person is the greatest of all,
because such a person has reached to the
culmination point in the evolution of mankind.
One should be able to give generously. As Shri Lakshmi
donates with the left hand, in the same way
a person who is lakshmiputra (indicating the principle of
Lakshmi in a man) should also give generously with his left
hand in such a way that even the right hand does not know it.
Giving with the left hand signifies giving very sahaj
(spontaneously) without any effort. And all the desire
must be only of generosity. And truly in this world
there are so many material things, and I think for
all these things there is only one importance,
and that is these things we can give to others.
By means of generosity we can show the greatness
of our heart. We can show our affection and warmth,
and that is why all these things have importance,
otherwise there is no importance of all the material things.
There are so many statues of swayambhus. Amongst
them the statue of Shri Mahalakshmi is considered as the
most important by us in Sahaja Yoga. By Her grace our
By Her grace our Kundalini rises in the channel
of Shri Mahalakshmi. She is above Shri Lakshmi Principle.
Now this (right) hand is like this.
This hand is the symbol of shelter.
It has two meanings: shelter - give shelter to everyone,
this hand gives protection to everyone. But in reality
we see just the opposite. The lakshmipatis put a lot of
pressure and fear on everyone. On the contrary
She (Lakshmi) is just standing quietly on a lotus,
not showing off anything special about Her. Otherwise
people need cars and this and that, to show that they are
so wealthy and are superior in comparison to others.
On the other hand She is not putting any weight or
pressure on others. She is standing so lightly, so delicate
that nobody should be troubled because of Her. The real
lakshmipati will sit somewhere in the corner, will sit
with complete faith and silence, and will leave quietly.
Even if he wants to give something he will give
and say, Shri Mataji, this is something which is
my donation, but please do not disclose my
name, and You accept it somehow. I have given this
at Your Lotus Feet - finished now, I have nothing
to do with it any more. When I tell him that I do not
take money but it is to be given to the trust
(and for which we have to know the name of the donor)
he will say, You can put it in the name of anybody else,
I have no objection. I have given this to You,
I do not want my name to published. Only if You want to
disclose my name to the income tax authorities I do not mind,
but otherwise I do not want my name or anything.
He will be requesting very humbly not to disclose his name.
This person we can call is a real lakshmipati.
The (right) hand of Shri Lakshmi is pointing up in this way.
That means your attention should be above, towards a
higher goal. So when a person becomes a lakshmipati,
then his attention is such that he starts thinking,
Now I have become lakshmipati, but now, how can
I attain God? When this stage comes in a human being,
he has wealth and he receives a lot of wealth. Becomes rich,
and then when he gets the feeling of not achieving the inner
richness, then one can say that the Principle
of Shri Mahalakshmi has been awakened in him.
And in that Principle of Shri Mahalakshmi the Kundalini
is awakened. When She is awakened that is why we say,
"Udo, Ambe" meaning: "Shri Kundalini, please, get awakened."
We say this in the temple of Shri Mahalakshmi,
because She can get awakened only through
the channel of Shri Mahalakshmi. And thus She is awakened
in the channel of Shri Mahalakshmi and then penetrates
the above chakras, and comes up and completely
penetrates the Chakra of Sahasrara. Now let us see
how many incarnations of Shi Mahalakshmi we've had.
Firstly, the Principle of Shri Mahalakshmi is very close
with a guru, a relation of plenty of love and purity.
Now if we see from the beginning, by all the Adi Gurus,
She was born to them as a daughter or as a sister.
Like the daughter of Janaka was Shri Sita - the form
of Mahalakshmi. She was the Principle of Mahalakshmi.
and She was the daughter of Janaka.
Then the sister of Shri Nanaka - Nanaki -
She was Mahalakshmi. Her relation was of sister.
In the same way, the daughter of Mohammed Sahib, Fatima,
She was Mahalakshmi. After Her, Radha was the form:
of Mahalakshmi, then comes Mary:
Mary was Shri Mahalakshmi,
and Her relation was of purity. She was so pure
that with Her purity She gave birth to Shri Christ.
So She was a form of complete pure Virgin.
And as She was a form of Virgin, because of Her purity,
She got a son pure as Christ.
Because of these incarnations of Shri Mahalakshmi,
our chakras at the top within are being fixed up.
That means Shri Rama's Chakra is on the right side
of the heart, here She is in the form of Shri Sita,
here She is in the form of Radha,
here in the form of Mary. And at this place these powers of
Shri Mahakali, Shri Mahalakshmi and Shri Mahasaraswati
meets in the form of one Power which is Shri Adi Shakti.
She recides in Sahasrara
but it is said that in Sahasrara
She exists in a form of Mahamaya.
Adi Shakti is of a form of Mahamaya.
That is why the result of all these three Powers
was like this, that Adi Shakti comes
into this world in the form of Mahamaya
and She can penetrate the Sahasrara of everyone.
As you know, She is in front of you
and you know all about it.
So I don't need to tell anything more.
This is how, out of this Shri Mahalakshmi,
Shri Adi Shakti was incarnated. She has got all
the three Powers of Shri Mahakali, Mahalakshmi
and Shri Mahasaraswati. These Powers are within Her.
Only through this Shri Mahalakshmi Principle,
our pure desire - which is Shri Amba, actually power of
Shri Mahakali - can be awakened. She can do it.
That is why Adi Shakti is so important, because through
these three Powers, even if everything is ready, but
at the last what work has to be done,She is need.
That means the work is achieved through these Powers.
Even if this thing is very easy for us to achive,
we do get it easily, but still you have to work hard;
otherwise that work cannot be done.
It is quite difficult. If it would have been possible
only by Shri Adi Shakti, then there wouldn't be any need
of doing all such confusion.
You have to work hard,
and your support is required to accomplish the task.
You are on the stage now, not Me.
You can take My power and use It,
but know that now you are on the stage.
And that is why you are worthy of worship. You are special.
What am I? Whatever powers I have,
I have them since eternity; there is nothing special about it.
But you should use them. You must receive it,
you must achieve it, you should have mastery over it.
This is the real desire of Shri Adi Shakti,
this is Her pure desire. And for this pure desire
She is striving very hard every moment. And in this
you have all earned it, achieved it, accepted with love,
and going ahead you have progressed in it.
This is a very big satisfaction for Me.
And in this satisfaction I forget everything,
like how much I had to suffer in the past.
In the past many years I suffered a lot.
How much Sita had to suffer, how much Radha
had to suffer, how much Mary had to suffer:
I forget all that past. I feel
as if nothing has happened in the past, and that
whatever is happening now is something special.
But in this incarnation one thing is to be remembered,
that Shri Mahalakshmi has incarnated in human form
- in human form. But the Devi which we call
as Shri Mahakali has not incarnated in human form.
She always existed in the form of a Devi.
That is why to come in the form of Devi is easy,
but to come in the form of a human being is very
difficult task. And to fight like a human being and
live with the human beings is even more difficult.
Also to live, keeping within the limitations of human beings,
is much more difficult. All this work in the form of human
beings was done by all the Devas, and today we are experiencing
the auspicious fruits of all the work done in the past.
The great work done in Ganapatipule is worthy to be written
in history; big work has been done, and it will keep
happening every year ahead. My ardent desire is that
it continue at least for the next three, four years.
If this happens, then you people will also get the idea, that
what we've started from Ganapati
has reached perfectly Sahasrara.
This is so Aditi (Primordial) that it's difficult to express
in words. And all this you should receive. You should receive
whatever belongs to Me, this is My only pure disire.
And when this works out, then I don't want anything